Marketing: add page about the benefits of full verification (#784)
bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org: en/features/verification.md

---
# This file is licensed under the MIT License (MIT) available on
# http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.

layout: post
lang: en
columns: 1
id: bitcoin-core-verification
title: Verification - Bitcoin Core Features
breadcrumbs:
  - features
---
> Imagine a scientist reading about an experimental result and then
> repeating the experiment for herself. Doing so allows her to trust
> the result without having to trust the original scientists.

Bitcoin Core checks each block of transactions it receives to ensure
that everything in that block is fully valid---allowing it to trust the
block without trusting the miner who created it.

> This prevents miners from tricking Bitcoin Core users into accepting
> blocks that violate the 21 million bitcoin limit or which break other
> important rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This prevents miners from tricking Bitcoin Core users into accepting
blocks that violate the 21 million bitcoin limit or other
important rules.
```

Users of other wallets don't get this level of security, so they can be
tricked into accepting fabricated transactions or alternative block chains.

Why take that risk if you don't have to? Bitcoin Core provides the best

> possible security against dishonest miners along with additional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
possible security against dishonest miners, along with additional
```

> security against other easier attacks (see below for details).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
security against other types of attacks (see below for details).
```

<tr>
  <td><a href="/{{page.lang}}/features/details/bait-and-switch/">Bait and switch</a></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
  <td class="bgyellow"></td>
  <td class="bggreen"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><a href="/{{page.lang}}/features/details/fabricated-transactions/">Fabricated transactions</a></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
  <td class="bggreen"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><a href="/{{page.lang}}/features/details/transaction-withholding/">Transaction withholding</a></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
  <td class="bggreen"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><a href="/{{page.lang}}/features/details/chain-hijacking/">Chain hijacking</a></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
  <td class="bggreen"></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><a href="/{{page.lang}}/features/details/chain-rewrites/">Chain rewrites</a></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
  <td class="bgred"></td>
</tr>

</table>

Note that although all programs---including Bitcoin Core---are
vulnerable to chain rewrites, Bitcoin provides a defense mechanism: the
more confirmations your transactions have, the safer you are. *There is
no known decentralized defense better than that.*

> 

Reviewer: I think this is a bit alarmist for people who are likely to be misinformed.  There is no evidence that miners are near a majority attack level of hashrate, there are updates like StratumV2 in the works, and it doesn't affect bitcoins at rest.  I don't believe there has ever been a chain rewrite for the recommended 6 confirmations?

Author: I'm moving this to the chain rewrites page per one of your previous comments, so it should have more context there.  That said,

> There is no evidence that miners are near a majority attack level of hashrate

I don't understand this comment, miners always have a majority attack level of hashrate: 100% of present hashrate is always greater than the 50% need to be a majority.

> there are updates like StratumV2 in the works

That doesn't change the attack, it just increases the number of people who need to coordinate to pull it off.

> it doesn't affect bitcoins at rest.

Huh?  If you can sustain a majority of hashrate, you can rewrite every block on the chain except the genesis block.  Take any UTXO in your wallet and follow its coin ancestry back to the most recent ancestor that was the output of a generation transaction.  If that block is removed from the chain, its generation transaction is not valid and so your UTXO is also invalid.

> I don't believe there has ever been a chain rewrite for the recommended 6 confirmations?

An example of a six block reorg from July 2015 is provided on the chain rewrite page.

Reviewer: > I'm moving this to the chain rewrites page per one of your previous comments, so it should have more context there. 

Great, thanks!

> miners always have a majority attack level of hashrate

Yes, of course.  I should have been more clear - I meant that there is no evidence of a malicious miner or group of malicious miners building an alternative valid chain.  StratumV2, when fully implemented, vastly increases the number of people needed to coordinate to pull off the attack, and is a great defense.

> If you can sustain a majority of hashrate, you can rewrite every block on the chain except the genesis block

Yes, but it is much more likely that a 51% attack will start from a recent fork in the chain, thereby bitcoins "at rest" with many confirmations will not be affected.

> An example of a six block reorg from July 2015 is provided on the chain rewrite page.

That was an invalid block chain, and was not accepted by full nodes.  I don't believe there has ever been a block reorg of 6 blocks or longer.

Author: >  I don't believe there has ever been a block reorg of 6 blocks or longer.

2013 chain fork? https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0050.mediawiki
2010 value overflow incident?  https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Value_overflow_incident

Reviewer: Yes, of course - thank you for the links.

for other valuable things. That means it's the people accepting
bitcoins who give it value and who get to decide how Bitcoin should work.

When you accept bitcoins, you have the power to enforce Bitcoin's rules,
such as preventing confiscation of any person's bitcoins without access
to that person's private keys.

Unfortunately, many users outsource their enforcement power. This
leaves Bitcoin's decentralization in a weakened state where a handful of
miners can collude with a handful of service providers to change
Bitcoin's rules for all those non-verifying users who outsourced their power.

<table class="received_transactions center">
  <tr>
    <td class="center" markdown="span">*Users of wallet services*<br
      >**Trust service providers**{:.fgred}</td>

    <td class="center" markdown="span">*Users of P2P light wallets*<br
    >**Trust miners**{:.fgred}</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td class="center" markdown="span">*Users of client light wallets*<br
    > **Trust "free" servers**{:.fgred}</td>

    <td class="center" markdown="span">*Users of Bitcoin Core*<br
    >**Enforce the rules**{:.fggreen}</td>
  </tr>
</table>

> Unlike other wallets, **Bitcoin Core *does* enforce the rules**---so
> if the miners and service providers change the rules for their non-verifying
> users, those users will be unable to pay full verification Bitcoin Core
> users like you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike other wallets, **Bitcoin Core *does* enforce the rules**---so
if the miners and service providers change the rules for their non-verifying
users, those users will be unable to pay fully-verifying Bitcoin Core
users like you, and be kicked off the block chain.
```

Author: I don't know what "kicked off the block chain" means.  I think this text is fine as-is.

Reviewer: They'd be forked off the chain is what I meant.

Author: I don't think we need to say that.  It doesn't matter what underlying data their software uses, it matters what they can or can't do, which is pay users who are still validating the rules.

Reviewer: :+1:

As long as there are many non-verifying users who want to be able to

> pay Bitcoin Core users, miners and others know they can't effectively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pay Bitcoin Core users, miners and others know that they can't effectively
```

change Bitcoin's rules.

But what if not enough non-verifying users care about paying Bitcoin
Core users? Then it becomes easy for miners and service providers to
take control of Bitcoin, likely bringing to an end this {{bitcoin_age}}
year experiment in decentralized currency.

{:.center}
![History of Bitcoin](/assets/images/losing-decentralization.png)

If you think **Bitcoin should remain decentralized,** the best thing you
can do is [verify every payment you receive](#do-you-verify) using your own personal
full node such as Bitcoin Core.

> We don't know how many full verification users and business are needed,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We don't know how many fully-verifying users and business are needed,
```

Author: What's the motivation for these changes from "full verification" to "fully verifying"?  I think finding as many ways to repeat "full verification" without getting excessive is probably a good way to firmly get this concept in the readers brain.  Rephrasing the concept waters it down IMO.

Reviewer: You can't have a "verification user".  You can have a "verifying user".  That is the adjective form.

Author: Does that mean you also can't have a "bitcoin user" but only a "bitcoining user"?

Sorry for being snarky, but I'm not aware of the rule you're referring to.  I'd prefer to keep this text as-is.

Reviewer: It's a good question.

Bitcoin is a proper noun, like "Internet".  You are an" Internet user".  But then again, we are not a grammar text book, so if you strongly prefer the other way, that's fine.
